# 1.4 Ensure that there are only GCP-managed service account keys for each service account (Automated)

## Profile Applicability
- Level 1

## Description

User managed service accounts should not have user-managed keys.

## Rationale
Anyone who has access to the keys will be able to access resources through the service
account. GCP-managed keys are used by Cloud Platform services such as App Engine and
Compute Engine. These keys cannot be downloaded. Google will keep the keys and
automatically rotate them on an approximately weekly basis. User-managed keys are
created, downloadable, and managed by users. They expire 10 years from creation.

For user-managed keys, the user has to take ownership of key management activities which include:

- Key storage
- Key distribution
- Key revocation
- Key rotation
- Protecting the keys from unauthorized users
- Key recovery

Even with key owner precautions, keys can be easily leaked by common development
malpractices like checking keys into the source code or leaving them in the Downloads
directory, or accidentally leaving them on support blogs/channels.

It is recommended to prevent user-managed service account keys.

## Impact

Deleting user-managed Service Account Keys may break communication with the
applications using the corresponding keys.

## Prevention

You can disable service account key creation through the Disable service account key
creation Organization policy by visiting [here](https://console.cloud.google.com/iamadmin/orgpolicies/iam-disableServiceAccountKeyCreation). Learn more [here](https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/organization-policy/restrictingservice-accounts).

In addition, if you do not need to have service accounts in your project, you can also
prevent the creation of service accounts through the `Disable service account creation` (Organization policy](https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/orgpolicies/iamdisableServiceAccountCreation)

## Default Value

By default, there are no user-managed keys created for user-managed service accounts.

## References

1. https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/understanding-serviceaccounts#managing_service_account_keys
2. https://cloud.google.com/resource-manager/docs/organization-policy/restrictingservice-accounts

## Additional Information

A user-managed key cannot be created on GCP-Managed Service Accounts