# 1.5 Ensure that Service Account has no Admin privileges (Automated)

## Profile Applicability
- Level 1

## Description

A service account is a special Google account that belongs to an application or a VM, instead
of to an individual end-user. The application uses the service account to call the service's
Google API so that users aren't directly involved. It's recommended not to use admin access
for ServiceAccount.

## Rationale

Service accounts represent service-level security of the Resources (application or a VM)
which can be determined by the roles assigned to it. Enrolling ServiceAccount with Admin
rights gives full access to an assigned application or a VM. A ServiceAccount Access holder
can perform critical actions like delete, update change settings, etc. without user intervention. For this reason, it's recommended that service accounts not have Admin rights.

## Impact

Removing `Admin` or `adminorEditororOwner` role assignments from service accounts
may break functionality that uses impacted service accounts. Required role(s) should be
assigned to impacted service accounts in order to restore broken functionalities.

## Default Value

User Managed (and not user-created) default service accounts have the Editor
(roles/editor) role assigned to them to support GCP services they offer.
By default, there are no roles assigned to User Managed User created service accounts.

## References

1. https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/iam/service-accounts/
2. https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/understanding-roles
3. https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/understanding-service-accounts

## Additional Information

Default (user-managed but not user-created) service accounts have the `Editor`
`(roles/editor)` role assigned to them to support GCP services they offer. Such Service
accounts are: `PROJECT_NUMBER-compute@developer.gserviceaccount.com`,
`PROJECT_ID@appspot.gserviceaccount.com`.