# 1.6 Ensure that IAM users are not assigned the Service Account User or Service Account Token Creator roles at project level (Automated)

## Profile Applicability

- Level 1

## Description

It is recommended to assign the `Service Account User (iam.serviceAccountUser)` and
`Service Account Token Creator (iam.serviceAccountTokenCreator)` roles to a user for
a specific service account rather than assigning the role to a user at project level.

## Rationale

A service account is a special Google account that belongs to an application or a virtual
machine (VM), instead of to an individual end-user. Application/VM-Instance uses the
service account to call the service's Google API so that users aren't directly involved. In
addition to being an identity, a service account is a resource that has IAM policies attached
to it. These policies determine who can use the service account.

Users with IAM roles to update the App Engine and Compute Engine instances (such as App
Engine Deployer or Compute Instance Admin) can effectively run code as the service
accounts used to run these instances, and indirectly gain access to all the resources for
which the service accounts have access. Similarly, SSH access to a Compute Engine instance
may also provide the ability to execute code as that instance/Service account.

Based on business needs, there could be multiple user-managed service accounts configured for a project. Granting the `iam.serviceAccountUser` or `iam.serviceAserviceAccountTokenCreatorccountUser` roles to a user for a project gives the user access to all service accounts in the project, including service accounts that may be created in the future. This can result in elevation of privileges by using service accounts and corresponding `Compute Engine instances`.

In order to implement `least privileges` best practices, IAM users should not be assigned
the `Service Account User` or `Service Account Token Creator` roles at the project level.
Instead, these roles should be assigned to a user for a specific service account, giving that
user access to the service account. The Service Account User allows a user to bind a
service account to a long-running job service, whereas the Service Account Token
Creator role allows a user to directly impersonate (or assert) the identity of a service
account.

## Impact

After revoking `Service Account User` or `Service Account Token Creator` roles at the
project level from all impacted user account(s), these roles should be assigned to a user(s)
for specific service account(s) according to business needs.

## Default Value

By default, users do not have the Service Account User or Service Account Token Creator
role assigned at project level.

## References

1. https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-accounts
2. https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/granting-roles-to-service-accounts
3. https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/understanding-roles
4. https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/granting-changing-revoking-access
5. https://console.cloud.google.com/iam-admin/iam

## Additional Information

To assign the role `roles/iam.serviceAccountUser` or `roles/iam.serviceAccountTokenCreator` to a user role on a service account instead of a project:

1. Go to https://console.cloud.google.com/projectselector/iamadmin/serviceaccounts
2. Select Target Project
3. Select target service account. Click Permissions on the top bar. It will open
permission pane on right side of the page
4. Add desired members with Service Account User or Service Account Token
Creator role.