# 1.7 Ensure user-managed/external keys for service accounts are rotated every 90 days or less (Automated)

## Profile Applicability
- Level 1

## Description
Service Account keys consist of a key ID (Private_key_Id) and Private key, which are used to sign programmatic requests users make to Google cloud services accessible to that particular service account. It is recommended that all Service Account keys are regularly
rotated.

## Rationale

Rotating Service Account keys will reduce the window of opportunity for an access key that
is associated with a compromised or terminated account to be used. Service Account keys
should be rotated to ensure that data cannot be accessed with an old key that might have
been lost, cracked, or stolen.

Each service account is associated with a key pair managed by Google Cloud Platform
(GCP). It is used for service-to-service authentication within GCP. Google rotates the keys daily.

GCP provides the option to create one or more user-managed (also called external key
pairs) key pairs for use from outside GCP (for example, for use with Application Default
Credentials). When a new key pair is created, the user is required to download the private
key (which is not retained by Google). With external keys, users are responsible for keeping
the private key secure and other management operations such as key rotation. External
keys can be managed by the IAM API, gcloud command-line tool, or the Service Accounts
page in the Google Cloud Platform Console. GCP facilitates up to 10 external service account
keys per service account to facilitate key rotation.

## Impact

Rotating service account keys will break communication for dependent applications.
Dependent applications need to be configured manually with the new key ID displayed in
the Service account keys section and the private key downloaded by the user.

## Default Value

GCP does not provide an automation option for External (user-managed) Service key
rotation.

## References

1. https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/understanding-serviceaccounts#managing_service_account_keys
2. https://cloud.google.com/sdk/gcloud/reference/iam/service-accounts/keys/list
3. https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-accounts

## Additional Information

For user-managed Service Account key(s), key management is entirely the user's responsibility.