# 1.8 Ensure that Separation of duties is enforced while assigning service account related roles to users (Manual)

## Profile Applicability

- Level 2

## Description

It is recommended that the principle of 'Separation of Duties' is enforced while assigning service-account related roles to users

## Rationale:

The built-in/predefined IAM role `Service Account admin` allows the user/identity to
create, delete, and manage service account(s). The built-in/predefined IAM role `Service Account User` allows the user/identity (with adequate privileges on Compute and App
Engine) to assign service account(s) to Apps/Compute Instances.

Separation of duties is the concept of ensuring that one individual does not have all
necessary permissions to be able to complete a malicious action. In Cloud IAM - service accounts, this could be an action such as using a service account to access resources that user should not normally have access to.

Separation of duties is a business control typically used in larger organizations, meant to
help avoid security or privacy incidents and errors. It is considered best practice.

No user should have `Service Account Admin` and `Service Account User` roles assigned at the same time.

## Impact

The removed role should be assigned to a different user based on business needs

## References

1. https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/service-accounts
2. https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/understanding-roles
3. https://cloud.google.com/iam/docs/granting-roles-to-service-accounts

## Additional Information

Users granted with Owner (roles/owner) and Editor (roles/editor) have privileges
equivalent to `Service Account Admin` and `Service Account User`. To avoid the misuse,
Owner and Editor roles should be granted to very limited users and Use of these primitive
privileges should be minimal. These requirements are addressed in separate recommendations.