# 2.1 Ensure that Cloud Audit Logging is configured properly across all services and all users from a project (Automated)

## Profile Applicability:

- Level 1

## Description

It is recommended that Cloud Audit Logging is configured to track all admin activities and read, write access to user data.

## Rationale

Cloud Audit Logging maintains two audit logs for each project, folder, and organization: Admin Activity and Data Access.
1. Admin Activity logs contain log entries for API calls or other administrative actions that modify the configuration or metadata of resources. Admin Activity audit logs are enabled for all services and cannot be configured.
2. Data Access audit logs record API calls that create, modify, or read user-provided data. These are disabled by default and should be enabled.
   There are three kinds of Data Access audit log information:
    - Admin read: Records operations that read metadata or configuration information. Admin Activity audit logs record writes of metadata and configuration information that cannot be disabled.
    - Data read: Records operations that read user-provided data.
    - Data write: Records operations that write user-provided data.
   
It is recommended to have an effective default audit config configured in such a way that:
1. logtype is set to DATA_READ (to log user activity tracking) and DATA_WRITES (to log changes/tampering to user data).
2. audit config is enabled for all the services supported by the Data Access audit logs feature.
3. Logs should be captured for all users, i.e., there are no exempted users in any of the audit config sections. This will ensure overriding the audit config will not contradict the requirement.

## Impact

There is no charge for Admin Activity audit logs. Enabling the Data Access audit logs might result in your project being charged for the additional logs usage.

## Default Value

Admin Activity logs are always enabled. They cannot be disabled. Data Access audit logs are disabled by default because they can be quite large.

## References

1. https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/audit/
2. https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/audit/configure-data-access

## Additional Information

 - Log type DATA_READ is equally important to that of DATA_WRITE to track detailed user activities.
 - BigQuery Data Access logs are handled differently from other data access logs. BigQuery logs are enabled by default and cannot be disabled. They do not count against logs allotment and cannot result in extra logs charges.