# 2.3 Ensure that retention policies on log buckets are configured using Bucket Lock (Automated)

## Profile Applicability:

- Level 1

## Description

Enabling retention policies on log buckets will protect logs stored in cloud storage buckets from being overwritten or accidentally deleted. It is recommended to set up retention policies and configure Bucket Lock on all storage buckets that are used as log sinks.

## Rationale

Logs can be exported by creating one or more sinks that include a log filter and a destination. As Cloud Logging receives new log entries, they are compared against each sink. If a log entry matches a sink's filter, then a copy of the log entry is written to the destination.  

Sinks can be configured to export logs in storage buckets. It is recommended to configure a data retention policy for these cloud storage buckets and to lock the data retention policy; thus permanently preventing the policy from being reduced or removed. This way, if the system is ever compromised by an attacker or a malicious insider who wants to cover their tracks, the activity logs are definitely preserved for forensics and security investigations.

## Impact

Locking a bucket is an irreversible action. Once you lock a bucket, you cannot remove the retention policy from the bucket or decrease the retention period for the policy.

## Default Value

By default, storage buckets used as log sinks do not have retention policies and Bucket Lock configured.

## References

1. https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/bucket-lock
2. https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/using-bucket-lock