# 2.4 Ensure log metric filter and alerts exist for project ownership assignments/changes (Automated)

## Profile Applicability:

- Level 1

## Description

In order to prevent unnecessary project ownership assignments to users/service-accounts and further misuses of projects and resources, all roles/Owner assignments should be monitored.  

Members (users/Service-Accounts) with a role assignment to primitive role roles/Owner are project owners.  

The project owner has all the privileges on the project the role belongs to. These are summarized below: 

```
 - All viewer permissions on all GCP Services within the project 
 
 - Permissions for actions that modify the state of all GCP services within the project 
 
 - Manage roles and permissions for a project and all resources within the project 
 
 - Set up billing for a project
```
Granting the owner role to a member (user/Service-Account) will allow that member to modify the Identity and Access Management (IAM) policy. Therefore, grant the owner role only if the member has a legitimate purpose to manage the IAM policy. This is because the project IAM policy contains sensitive access control data. Having a minimal set of users allowed to manage IAM policy will simplify any auditing that may be necessary.

## Rationale

Project ownership has the highest level of privileges on a project. To avoid misuse of project resources, the project ownership assignment/change actions mentioned above should be monitored and alerted to concerned recipients.  
```
    - Sending project ownership invites 
    
    - Acceptance/Rejection of project ownership invite by user 
    
    - Adding `role\Owner` to a user/service-account 
    
    - Removing a user/Service account from `role\Owner`
```


## Impact

Enabling of logging may result in your project being charged for the additional logs usage.

## References

1. https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/logs-based-metrics/
2. https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/custom-metrics/
3. https://cloud.google.com/monitoring/alerts/
4. https://cloud.google.com/logging/docs/reference/tools/gcloud-logging

## Additional Information

1. Project ownership assignments for a user cannot be done using the gcloud utility as assigning project ownership to a user requires sending, and the user accepting, an invitation.  
2. Project Ownership assignment to a service account does not send any invites. SetIAMPolicy to role/owneris directly performed on service accounts.