# 3.5 Ensure that RSASHA1 is not used for the zone-signing key in Cloud DNS DNSSEC (Manual)

## Profile Applicability:

- Level 1

## Description

DNSSEC algorithm numbers in this registry may be used in CERT RRs. Zone signing (DNSSEC) and transaction security mechanisms (SIG(0) and TSIG) make use of particular subsets of these algorithms. The algorithm used for key signing should be a recommended one, and it should be strong.

## Rationale

DNSSEC algorithm numbers in this registry may be used in CERT RRs. Zone signing (DNSSEC) and transaction security mechanisms (SIG(0) and TSIG) make use of particular subsets of these algorithms.  

The algorithm used for key signing should be a recommended one, and it should be strong. When enabling DNSSEC for a managed zone, or creating a managed zone with DNSSEC, the DNSSEC signing algorithms and the denial-of-existence type can be selected. Changing the DNSSEC settings is only effective for a managed zone if DNSSEC is not already enabled. If the need exists to change the settings for a managed zone where it has been enabled, turn DNSSEC off and then re-enable it with different settings.

## Impact

After a successful key rotation, the older key version is required in order to decrypt the
data encrypted by that previous key version

## References

1. https://cloud.google.com/dns/dnssec-advanced#advanced_signing_options

## Additional Information

1. RSASHA1 zone-signing support may be required for compatibility reasons.
2. The remediation CLI works well with gcloud-cli version 221.0.0 and later.