# 3.8 Ensure that VPC Flow Logs is enabled for every subnet in a VPC Network (Automated)

## Profile Applicability:

- Level 1

## Description

Flow Logs is a feature that enables users to capture information about the IP traffic going to and from network interfaces in the organization's VPC Subnets. Once a flow log is created, the user can view and retrieve its data in Stackdriver Logging. It is recommended that Flow Logs be enabled for every business-critical VPC subnet.

## Rationale

VPC networks and subnetworks not reserved for internal HTTP(S) load balancing provide logically isolated and secure network partitions where GCP resources can be launched. When Flow Logs are enabled for a subnet, VMs within that subnet start reporting on all Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) and User Datagram Protocol (UDP) flows. Each VM samples the TCP and UDP flows it sees, inbound and outbound, whether the flow is to or from another VM, a host in the on-premises datacenter, a Google service, or a host on the Internet. If two GCP VMs are communicating, and both are in subnets that have VPC Flow Logs enabled, both VMs report the flows.  

Flow Logs supports the following use cases:
 - Network monitoring
 - Understanding network usage and optimizing network traffic expenses
 - Network forensics
 - Real-time security analysis  

Flow Logs provide visibility into network traffic for each VM inside the subnet and can be used to detect anomalous traffic or provide insight during security workflows.  

Note: Subnets reserved for use by internal HTTP(S) load balancers do not support VPC flow logs.

## Impact

Standard pricing for Stackdriver Logging, BigQuery, or Cloud Pub/Sub applies. VPC Flow Logs generation will be charged starting in GA as described in reference: https://cloud.google.com/vpc/

## Default Value

By default, Flow Logs is set to Off when a new VPC network subnet is created.

## References

1. https://cloud.google.com/vpc/docs/using-flow-logs#enabling_vpc_flow_logging
2. https://cloud.google.com/vpc/
