# 4.6 Ensure that IP forwarding is not enabled on Instances (Automated)

## Profile Applicability:

- Level 1

## Description

Compute Engine instance cannot forward a packet unless the source IP address of the packet matches the IP address of the instance. Similarly, GCP won't deliver a packet whose destination IP address is different from the IP address of the instance receiving the packet. However, both capabilities are required if you want to use instances to help route packets.  

Forwarding of data packets should be disabled to prevent data loss or information disclosure.

## Rationale

Compute Engine instance cannot forward a packet unless the source IP address of the packet matches the IP address of the instance. Similarly, GCP won't deliver a packet whose destination IP address is different from the IP address of the instance receiving the packet. However, both capabilities are required if you want to use instances to help route packets. To enable this source and destination IP check, disable the canIpForward field, which allows an instance to send and receive packets with non-matching destination or source IPs.

## Impact

Deleting instance(s) acting as routers/packet forwarders may break the network connectivity.

## Default Value

By default, instances are not configured to allow IP forwarding.

## References

1. https://cloud.google.com/vpc/docs/using-routes#canipforward

## Additional Information

You can only set the canIpForward field at instance creation time. After an instance is created, the field becomes read-only.