# 4.8 Ensure Compute instances are launched with Shielded VM enabled (Automated)

## Profile Applicability:

- Level 2

## Description

To defend against advanced threats and ensure that the bootloader and firmware on your VMs are signed and untampered, it is recommended that Compute instances are launched with Shielded VM enabled.

## Rationale

Shielded VMs are virtual machines (VMs) on Google Cloud Platform hardened by a set of security controls that help defend against rootkits and bootkits.  

Shielded VM offers verifiable integrity of your Compute Engine VM instances, so you can be confident your instances haven't been compromised by boot- or kernel-level malware or rootkits. Shielded VM's verifiable integrity is achieved through the use of Secure Boot, virtual trusted platform module (vTPM)-enabled Measured Boot, and integrity monitoring.  

Shielded VM instances run firmware which is signed and verified using Google's Certificate Authority, ensuring that the instance's firmware is unmodified and establishing the root of trust for Secure Boot.  

Integrity monitoring helps you understand and make decisions about the state of your VM instances and the Shielded VM vTPM enables Measured Boot by performing the measurements needed to create a known good boot baseline, called the integrity policy baseline. The integrity policy baseline is used for comparison with measurements from subsequent VM boots to determine if anything has changed.  

Secure Boot helps ensure that the system only runs authentic software by verifying the digital signature of all boot components, and halting the boot process if signature verification fails.

## Impact

None.

## Default Value

By default, Compute Instances do not have Shielded VM enabled.

## References

1. https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/modifying-shielded-vm
2. https://cloud.google.com/shielded-vm
3. https://cloud.google.com/security/shielded-cloud/shielded-vm#organization-policy-constraint

## Additional Information

If you do use custom or unsigned drivers on the instance, enabling Secure Boot will cause the machine to no longer boot. Turn on Secure Boot only on instances that have been verified to not have any custom drivers installed.