# 6.2.7 Ensure 'log_statement' database flag for Cloud SQL PostgreSQL instance is set appropriately (Manual)

## Profile Applicability:

- Level 1

## Description

The value of `log_statement` flag determined the SQL statements that are logged. Valid values are:
 - `none`
 - `ddl`
 - `mod`
 - `all`  

The value `ddl` logs all data definition statements. The value `mod` logs all ddl statements, plus data-modifying statements.  

The statements are logged after a basic parsing is done and statement type is determined, thus this does not logs statements with errors. When using extended query protocol, logging occurs after an Execute message is received and values of the Bind parameters are included.  

A value of `ddl` is recommended unless otherwise directed by your organization's logging policy.

## Rationale

Auditing helps in troubleshooting operational problems and also permits forensic analysis. If `log_statement` is not set to the correct value, too many statements may be logged leading to issues in finding the relevant information from the logs, or too few statements may be logged with relevant information missing from the logs. Setting log_statement to align with your organization's security and logging policies facilitates later auditing and review of database activities. This recommendation is applicable to PostgreSQL database instances.

## References

1. https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/postgres/flags
2. https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/runtime-config-logging.html#RUNTIME-CONFIG-LOGGING-WHAT

## Additional Information

```
"WARNING: This patch modifies database flag values, which may require the instance to be restarted. Check the list of supported flags - https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/flags - to see if your instance will be restarted when this patch is submitted. 

Note: some database flag settings can affect instance availability or stability, and remove the instance from the Cloud SQL SLA. For information about these flags, see Operational Guidelines."
 
Note: Configuring the above flag restarts the Cloud SQL instance.
```