# 6.2.13 Ensure that the 'log_min_messages' database flag for Cloud SQL PostgreSQL instance is set appropriately (Manual)

## Profile Applicability:

- Level 1

## Description

The `log_min_messages` flag defines the minimum message severity level that is considered as an error statement. Messages for error statements are logged with the SQL statement. Valid values include `DEBUG5`, `DEBUG4`, `DEBUG3`, `DEBUG2`, `DEBUG1`, `INFO`, `NOTICE`, `WARNING`, `ERROR`, `LOG`, `FATAL`, and `PANIC`. Each severity level includes the subsequent levels mentioned above.  

Note: To effectively turn off logging failing statements, set this parameter to `PANIC`.  

`ERROR` is considered the best practice setting. Changes should only be made in accordance with the organization's logging policy.

## Rationale

Auditing helps in troubleshooting operational problems and also permits forensic analysis. If `log_min_error_statement` is not set to the correct value, messages may not be classified as error messages appropriately. Considering general log messages as error messages would make it difficult to find actual errors, while considering only stricter severity levels as error messages may skip actual errors to log their SQL statements. The `log_min_messages` flag should be set in accordance with the organization's logging policy. This recommendation is applicable to PostgreSQL database instances.

## Default Value

By default `log_min_error_statement` is `ERROR`.

## References

1. https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/postgres/flags
2. https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.6/runtime-config-logging.html#RUNTIME-CONFIG-LOGGING-WHEN

## Additional Information

```
"WARNING: This patch modifies database flag values, which may require the instance to be restarted. Check the list of supported flags - https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/mysql/flags - to see if your instance will be restarted when this patch is submitted. 

Note: some database flag settings can affect instance availability or stability, and remove the instance from the Cloud SQL SLA. For information about these flags, see Operational Guidelines."
 
Note: Configuring the above flag restarts the Cloud SQL instance.
```