# 6.3.3 Ensure 'user connections' database flag for Cloud SQL SQL Server instance is set as appropriate (Automated)

## Profile Applicability:

- Level 1

## Description

It is recommended to set `user connections` database flag for Cloud SQL SQL Server instance according organization-defined value.

## Rationale

The `user connections` option specifies the maximum number of simultaneous user connections that are allowed on an instance of SQL Server. The actual number of user connections allowed also depends on the version of SQL Server that you are using, and also the limits of your application or applications and hardware. SQL Server allows a maximum of 32,767 user connections. Because user connections is a dynamic (self-configuring) option, SQL Server adjusts the maximum number of user connections automatically as needed, up to the maximum value allowable. For example, if only 10 users are logged in, 10 user connection objects are allocated. In most cases, you do not have to change the value for this option. The default is 0, which means that the maximum (32,767) user connections are allowed. This recommendation is applicable to SQL Server database instances.

## Default Value

By default `user connections` is configured `0` (`32`, `767`).

## References

1. https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/sqlserver/flags
2. https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/sql/database-engine/configure-windows/configure-the-user-connections-server-configuration-option?view=sql-server-ver15
3. https://www.stigviewer.com/stig/ms_sql_server_2016_instance/2018-03-09/finding/V-79119

## Additional Information

```
"WARNING: This patch modifies database flag values, which may require the instance to be restarted. Check the list of supported flags - https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/sqlserver/flagss - to see if your instance will be restarted when this patch is submitted. 

Note: some database flag settings can affect instance availability or stability, and remove the instance from the Cloud SQL SLA. For information about these flags, see Operational Guidelines."
 
Note: Configuring the above flag restarts the Cloud SQL instance.
```