# 6.4 Ensure that the Cloud SQL database instance requires all incoming connections to use SSL (Automated)

## Profile Applicability:

- Level 1

## Description

It is recommended to enforce all incoming connections to SQL database instance to use SSL.

## Rationale

SQL database connections if successfully trapped (MITM); can reveal sensitive data like credentials, database queries, query outputs etc. For security, it is recommended to always use SSL encryption when connecting to your instance. This recommendation is applicable for Postgresql, MySql generation 1, MySql generation 2 and SQL Server 2017 instances.

## Impact

After enforcing SSL connection, existing client will not be able to communicate with SQL server unless configured with appropriate client-certificates to communicate to SQL database instance.

## Default Value

By default parameter `settings: ipConfiguration: requireSsl` is not set which is equivalent to `requireSsl:false`.

## References

1. https://cloud.google.com/sql/docs/postgres/configure-ssl-instance

## Additional Information

By default `Settings: ipConfiguration` has no `authorizedNetworks` set/configured. In that case even if by default `requireSsl` is not set, which is equivalent to `requireSsl:false` there is no risk as instance cannot be accessed outside of the network unless `authorizedNetworks` are configured. However, If default for `requireSsl` is not updated to `true` any `authorizedNetworks` created later on will not enforce SSL only connection.